TechPreview for Knative-Kafka-broker docs (#39408)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-kafka-broker-sasl-custom-config.adoc

// Module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/knative_eventing/serverless-kafka.adoc

[id="serverless-kafka-broker-sasl-custom-config_{context}"]

> = Configuring SASL authentication for the Kafka Broker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring SASL authentication for the Kafka broker
```

.Prerequisites

* A username and password for the Kafka cluster.
* Choose the SASL mechanism to use, for example `PLAIN`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, or `SCRAM-SHA-512`.
* If TLS is enabled, you also need the `ca.crt` certificate file for the Kafka cluster.

> [NOTE]
> ====
> Red Hat recommends to enable TLS in addition to SASL.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Red Hat recommends enabling TLS in addition to SASL.
====
```

.Procedure

. Create the certificate files as secrets in your chosen namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret --namespace <namespace> generic <kafka_auth_secret> \
  --from-literal=protocol=SASL_SSL \
  --from-literal=sasl.mechanism=<sasl_mechanism> \
  --from-file=ca.crt=caroot.pem \
  --from-literal=password="SecretPassword" \
  --from-literal=user="my-sasl-user"
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Use the key names `ca.crt`, `password`, and `sasl.mechanism`. Do not change them.
====

> . Create a `ConfigMap` for configuration as a YAML file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a config map as a YAML file:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-kafka-broker-config
data:
  default.topic.partitions: <partitions>
  default.topic.replication.factor: <replication_factor>
  bootstrap.servers: <bootstrap_servers>
  auth.secret.ref.name: <kafka_auth_secret>
----

> . Apply the `ConfigMap` YAML file:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc apply -f <filename>
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the config map:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>
----
```

I'll leave it up to you how you want to format these. I'd probably go with "config map" as shown, but there are other suggestions earlier if you want to use `ConfigMap` either.

. R

> 

Reviewer: remove this?

> . Reference your the `ConfigMap` on your `Kafka` broker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Reference the `ConfigMap` object in your Kafka broker configuration:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Broker
metadata:
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/broker.class: Kafka
  name: my-demo-kafka-broker
spec:
  config:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    name: my-kafka-broker-config
    namespace: <namespace>
----

.Additional resources

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.5/html-single/using_amq_streams_on_rhel/index#assembly-kafka-encryption-and-authentication-str[TLS and SASL on Kafka]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.5/html-single/using_amq_streams_on_rhel/index#assembly-kafka-encryption-and-authentication-str[Encryption and authentication] in the Red Hat AMQ Streams documentation.
```
